Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to create our upload we have controller because we're already done with
the authentication met right.
We're dealing with the authentication module.
We can create users we can sign them in.
We can log them out and we can't even remember if the user is signing or not.
Now next thing will be to create the upload we've controller because why.
Because we need to upload something to the server first so that we would have the data to retrieve from
the database and showed the data to the users in the feed view controller.
But right now we don't have anything.
And of course in order to do that we need an user interface even the upload view controller.
I remember the first introduction lecture in the section where I showed you that what we gonna build
in this section.
So you have seen the prototype app.
That's where you're going to build.
And remember we are uploading an image we're uploading a note or a comment of the user below the image
and that's all.
In fact in the background we're we're going to upload the data we're going to upload the user name and
we're going to upload the like count as well.
But for right now we in the user interface we only need a name to you.
And the text field and the bottom.
So your assignment now is to pause the video and come up with a way to create create an image view and
then user taps on it.
You will reach the photo library of the user and get the image and display it in the Image view and
you can add the text field and you can add the save by the law upload button as well.
Of course you don't have to write the upload function right now because you don't know how to do it.
We're going to do it later on together.
But you know how to create an image of you if you tap on it you can take the user to the photo library
and take the image back to the Image view.
So let's suppose the video and try to do that
I hope you managed to do it by yourself.
If not.
Don't worry I'm going to show you remind you how to do that because we have already done that before.
So I'm going to open my library and search for Image view.
OK.
And we're going to tag.
Take the image we've put it in here.
So this is the main thing right.
We're writing an Instagram clone.
So we have to post an image first.
And after that of course if you want to add something you can add like a comment or maybe a note maybe
something else.
I'm just going to add a comment after this Image view.
So this will be the Image view.
OK.
And below this image view I'm going to have a tax field so search for tax fields after you drag and
drop the tax fields.
Let's make this a little bigger.
OK so that's good I believe.
Let me put this in the center of this view controller and let let's write comment for a place holder
and make it centrally aligned as well.
And the love thing that we need is a button actually.
So let me bring in a button and make this a little bit bigger and we can name this button.
Save or upload.
Right.
Because we're uploading something to the server.
So I'm going to call this upload and that looks fine to me.
Now we have to find an image to show inside of this image view and I'm going to do this tap to select
image that we have done before.
Remember I've done with catch.
But if you don't want to do it you can always go to my github and grab the image that you can use in
your own project as well.
If you have any sketch or Photoshop or anything at all any design software you can easily do this kind
of thing later on in the course we are going to have a design section as well so that we will learn
how to create these basic images so that we can use in our apps very practically.
So I'm going to create a rectangle in here and I'm just going to change the color of this Something
Blue should be okay.
And after that I'm going to write tap to select here.
OK.
And of course this is my two big I'm going to go for something like 60 or 70 and we have a fancy font
here.
Let me change this to something much basic like that and I'm going to say tap to select.
OK.
So user will know where to tap to select an image.
So let me make this 72.
Yep.
That's good.
That's all I have to do.
So let me look at the dimensions from here.
So we have 300 to 200.
Let me go to this ruler.
This size inspector so I can see the size of my actually Image view.
OK.
So it's two hundred eighty five hundred seventy five.
So I can adjust this to be a little bit more square than it used to be so that I can select as an expert.
So let me make this into a group and then call it selects and then export this.
And again if you don't have any design software or if you don't want to deal with this you can just
download this from my github make out and you can use it.
And I believe if you have watch the art book section you already have an tap to select image so that
you can use that image as well.
So after putting this into my assets I'm going to go ahead to storyboard to choose the image that I
have created.
And here you go.
We have a good looking upload view controller right now and I believe we have to make this a little
bit smaller than what it is right now.
And let me put this a little bit higher.
I believe this is down.
OK so let me give this suggests its constraints and of course I'm going to get you fixed within height
to prevent any further issues in here after I do this.
I believe we're getting some errors in the constraints.
Yep.
Red lines.
So in order to fix this let me come over here and say update constraint constants and this will be OK.
Of course you can't do this without giving fixed height and weight constraints to the image view but
I'm not going to focus on user interface too much in here.
All I want is to create an upload of trawlers so that we can learn how to work with five year base.
Right.
So let's delete all of this comments section and let's bring in the image view first.
I'm gonna call this image view and the comment text.
So let's bring in the comment text here.
Comments text.
And then finally let's bring in the upload as an action.
OK.
So this will be action button clicked.
Why did I even called his action by then I don't know.
Let me define this as an outlet as well though it's not an action within set upload button.
But I'm not going to choose action as an I'm going to rather choose outlet because if you want to do
something like don't enable this button until the user chooses an image view or something you want this
upload button defined as an outlet.
OK.
And once you do it you can go to this we've did load because you have to make sure that your image view
is terrible.
I'm going to do this very fast because we have done this before.
OK.
I'm going to create the gesture cognizant and assign it to my image view.
So how do we do that.
I'm going to go ahead and say image view that image view is user interaction enabled sorry too.
So it enables us to interact with the image view like tapping on it.
So later on I'm going to create a UI tap gesture you guys are you know how to do that right.
Target will be self selector will be selector of course you have to create your selector function like
this.
I'm going to call this choose image under this function we going to write the UI picture of you control
the coach.
But first we have to say image you you've got to adjust you recognize or gesture recognize.
So in here in my choose image function what should I write.
Maybe you remember that we're working that something called the IP curvy controller right.
We got to work with the same thing as before.
I'm going to create the picture controller.
So this is going to be a you I image picture controller.
OK.
And the speaker controller will have a delegate of the current field controller so I'm going to assign
it to be s.
Once I do that it gives me an error because I have to make sure I come up here and make my upload wi
controller at Delegate of the picture controller.
So this is UI image picker controller delegates and a UI navigation controller delegates.
Once I do that the error will go away so I can proceed.
And we have to assign a v app to specify this first type of the speaker control.
So the source type of the speaker controller will be photo library.
Of course you can go for camera as well but it's not going to work on the simulator so I'm going to
go for a photo library and you can't specify if you're going to allow editing or something else but
I'm not going to do that.
You know how to do that already.
So I'm just going to present this.
OK.
I'm of course going to use animation and for completion I'm going to say no.
Ok so next we want to specify what will happen once a user goes to the photo library and chooses an
image.
Remember how we do that.
There is a function in order to specify this and it's called did finish peaking media.
OK.
So right did finish speaking media and it will show up like this.
And under this function we going to get and dictionary beginning to get a dictionary which is a UI image
picker controller info key to any dictionary.
So I'm going to say image with that image is going to be an info and in here for the info key I'm going
to say dot and you will get the options here.
I'm gonna go for original image and in return this will give me an.
Any object and I'm going to optionally cast this as a UI image and then I'm going to say soft dog.
This is the animated Yep.
Why not.
And the completion will be nil.
So actually we're done here right now.
But before we test this maybe we want to go to it for that P list in order to give and photo library
usage description like we did before.
So mind the privacy.
OK.
Photo Library usage description.
And in here right.
I think splinter reason something like to choose a photo.
OK.
And of course in the real life.
Maybe you meant you want to be more specific here and could go to the upload view controller then we
are done.
So let's run this and if it's working done only thing left to do here is to learn how to write data
to storage and to data in the firebase so that we can save all of this information in our cloud server.
So here we go.
I believe now the simulator is OK.
So let's see.
We are going to go to upload we have controller and this is looking nice.
So if I tap here to select any picture from my gallery it will show me the photo library of the e current
user of current phone.
These are the old photos that we used in art book but it's going to do the job as you can see if I choose
one of them then it displays it here.
Now I can't write any comment that I want and I can hit the upload button of course.
It's not gonna work because we don't have that function right now.
So we now want to learn how to upload this image to the storage and under this action button clicked.
And then we're going to learn how to write into the database as well.
Let's do all of those in the next lecture.